CS132
=====

These are lecture notes for Computer Science 132, _Geometric
Algorithms,_ as taught by me at Boston University. 
 The overall
structure of the course is roughly based on _Linear Algebra and its
Applications,_ by David C. Lay, Addison-Wesley (Pearson).   Many
examples and illustrations are based on that excellent text. 

The notes are in the form of Jupyter notebooks.   Demos and most figures
are included as executable Python code. Lecture notes are also available
online and in pdf via Jupyter book.

The rationale for the teaching approach used in this course is [here.](https://github.com/mcrovella/CS132-Geometric-Algorithms/blob/master/Collateral/CS132-Teaching-Philosophy.pdf)

A separate set of questions, used for in-class peer instruction with
clickers or TopHat, is
available on request.

__Course Versions__

* Spring 2021 - current version.  All figures can now be visualized in
   augmented reality via DiagramAR, available for iOS and Android.  App
   now loads from menus rather than primarily from QR codes.  Printed
   and online versions of the lecture notes are generated by Jupyter
   Book.  Lecture notes now stand alone without any additional textbook needed.
* Spring 2020 - Updated to support diagram
  presentation via DiagramAR (links below). 
* Fall 2015 - This semester the materials were
  converted to Python 3.4 and the 5th edition of the text.  This set is
  available as the "Fall 2015 Final" release.
* Spring 2015 (4th edition of text, Python 2.7 code) - available as the
  "spring15-final" release

__Software Used__

Each workbook can be presented as a slideshow in Jupyter notebook using the 
[RISE](https://github.com/damianavila/RISE) package, by
@damianavila.  This is how I give the lectures, typically modifying the
code during the lecture to illustrate points or explore ideas that come
up.

I use some
[notebook extensions](https://jupyter-contrib-nbextensions.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
to neaten and simplify the notebooks.  For the best presentation
experience, enable the "RISE," "Hide input," and
"split cells" extensions. 

Most 3D diagrams in the notes can be viewed in augmented reality via the
iPhone/Android app
[iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/diagramar/id1484987191), [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.crovella.diagramar).    The DiagramAR
team includes Dennis Henneman (principal developer), Xiqiao Chen
(designer), Dayong Wu (developer) and
Mark Crovella (project lead).






